# python_web_app_no_rpy2

This is a POC web app demonstrating possibilities for future data science architecture projects.
The app is built on the Flask framework.
It runs at https://regression-without-rpy2.herokuapp.com/ 
 
 
## Directory Structure
* Procfile:   Instructs Heroku how to launch app
* requirements.txt:    Defines required Python packages
* init.R: R script ran upon installation of R using a third-party [R Heroku Buildpack](https://github.com/virtualstaticvoid/heroku-buildpack-r/tree/heroku-16). Lists needed R packages.
### regression_app
Contains the R, python, and HTML templating code for the web app.
* __init__.py: App initialization and configuration
* text_input.py: Defines the text input views
* R_calling_functions.py: Functions which parse the csv-formatted text, create a string of command-line arguments, and executes the R call via command line. 
* predict.py: Defines the views related to inputting and viewing data for predicting using the linear model returned by the R call
* file_upload.py: Defines the views related to file uploading, dependent variable selection, and viewing the regression results
* csv_reader_new.R: R code which parses command-line arguments and fits a linear model given the data. Prints to stdout a regression summary as well as a Json-formatted string describing the regression coefficients 
#### templates  
Contains HTML templates; written using flask's built-in templating language, Jinja2
* base.html: Makes a title
* coefficient_selection.html: Dropdown menu for selecting dependent variable
* data_import.html: Text entry box with instructions for data input via text entry
* file_upload.html: File entry form with instructions.
* index.html: Welcome page.
* prediction_entry: Form generated to take in numeric values for model prediction. Dynamically adjusts to the column names of the uploaded data.
* pred_results.html: Shows results of the model prediction.
* regression_results.html: Shows the results of the linear model fitting from R. Prints the farmiliar output generated by the R code:
> summary(linear_model_object)




## Branches

### master
* Automatic Heroku deployment is enabled with this branch
* Heroku-required files (Procfile, requirements.txt, etc.) are up to date

### local_Windows_development
* An edition which functions on a development server on a local Windows machine. It may have some Heroku-specific files (Procfile, requirements.txt, etc.) but they may be depreciated.
